Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to increase the damage as we level up so you will see with this guy I'm
attacking it takes me about five hits to kill.
Now that levelled me up and if I go and attack another grunt it only takes me four then it takes me
three hits then two then one and find them a beast that kills them all in one hit.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So one of the things that's not fun at the moment in our game is that as we progressed through our levels
we don't get any tougher.
We don't beat those enemies quicker than we used to.
And that's something that is very typical of an RPG and something we want to implement.
So what we're going to do in this lecture is we're going to make it such that the entirety of your damage
is based upon what level you currently are in the following lectures we're gonna look at modify a systems
that mean that if you pick up different weapons that's going to tweak the damage that you do as well
so that you have two mechanisms to adjust how much damage you do what weapons you have equipped but
also what level you are.
So we're going to start off this journey in fighter where damage is done.
We're going to go and look for the place where damage is done which is in the hit event.
So on hit and what we want to do is instead of getting the current weapon damage this is where we want
to get the damage from the base stats instead.
So we're going to do a get components base stats and I think we'll need to include a the correct modules
so using RPG stats that's okay for fighter to use the stats in fact it probably should.
Then we'll use our parentheses and then we aren't going to do a get stat from there and we're going
to use a fictional stat that hasn't yet been created.
You're going to create it called damage like so and where's the other location that we need to know
about the damage.
Well actually the projectile needs to know about damage as well because if we have a look into launch
projectile in our weapons CSI script you can see that the damage is getting set on the projectile instance
here we've got set target gives a weapon damage but it uses the damage of the weapon.
Again we don't want to use damage of the weapon we want to tweak that based on what our stats are.
So we're going to have to pass in the calculated damage here to launch projectile.
So I'm going to add a float here called calculated damage and we're going to use the calculated damage
instead of the weapon damage when setting the projectile instances set target and then in fighter we
need to use that damage too so let's pull this out where we are calculating the damage I'm going to
pull it into a local variable and I'm going to put this local variable just before the if statement
so that we can use damage in both instances or both sides of this if both if we are launching a projectile
or if we are taking damage immediately because it is a handed weapon.
Now one other thing I want to do before your challenge is go to the health component make it easier
for us to see that we aren't progressing with damage that is improving for us so they're going to do
this in two ways.
The first one is I'm going to go into take damage and I'm going to add a print statement in here and
I'm gonna get it to print first of all the name of this game object.
So it's gonna be Game Object object Dalton name followed by took damage and then colon and then we are
going to have the actual damage that was taken which is here in there take damage.
So that's the damage that was taken that was just gonna print that out so that we can see whether we
are changing the damage based on having leveled up and another way I want to do this is that at the
moment our health points are shown in terms of percentages and I think that was okay and maybe that's
how you want to show it and maybe that's how you want to show it in a health bar.
But in terms of having it here for us to debug I think could be much more useful if they actually told
us the health points and the max health points.
So I'm going to try and tweak the class to do that now.
If you think you can tweak the class to do Max Health points and health points on the display then do
try and do that you're going to have to use both the health display and the enemy display.
You're gonna have to change both of those.
So pools we didn't have a go if you want to take on that challenge.
If not then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go public return float called Let's see you get health points
which should be easy because we're just returning health points like so.
And then we're gonna do a public floats get max health points and that is going to return.
What is it going to return.
It's going to return one like get percentage.
It's going to actually just return this from the base stands.
It's just gonna patch it through.
Now you might be wondering why not just get the base stats.
Well you could get the base stats but then our health display needs to know about too many other classes
and it's more fragile that way because if suddenly we change the way base stats works it's going to
trickle on through to all these things.
So we ideally keep dependency is low and we do things like this which is called forwarding where you
actually have one of the dependencies of the class forward the method on.
I mean it makes sense to ask health what its max health points are.
So why not have a method that then forwards it on.
And if we ever change how Max Health points is calculated we don't have to worry in all the places that
we're using it.
So we're going to use how Max Health points and health points and then go into health display and we're
gonna tweak it.
So instead of having a percentage it's now going to be one number followed by second number by the way
you need to use one in order to have it do the second argument that we're going to fill in here in case
that doesn't make sense.
You'll see in just a second we're going to get health points and then the second argument of the string
format is going to be health dots get max health points like so and now what you're seeing is I just
need to get my curly brace correctly there.
So we've got format than these.
The first argument is 0 and formatted with 0 decimal points and then the second argument is 1 again
formatted with 0 decimal points that's what it's telling us and it's going to write it with a slash
between it.
Now I want exactly this code over in the enemy health display as well.
So in a copy that go over to enemy health display and paste it in there instead of the string format
we were doing.
So now if we go ahead and play it we're not going to be able to go ahead and play because of this line
here.
So I'm just going to comment it out for now and I'm gonna do a float damage just equals five for the
time being and then we're gonna go ahead and play and see whether that's working as you can see I'm
starting from the beginning here pick up some sort of weapon attack this guy and you can see it is showing
the health points in absolute terms not as a percentage so we can see that it's going down by 5 every
single time.
And then you can see what our health has increased to when we have leveled up which I think is much
more informative for us when we're debugging right now so your mission well if you wish to accept it
is to add a damaged stat.
At the moment we have that commented out code make it work by adding to the enum.
Adding to the progression a progression of damage for each level of your character classes and then
test it against your enemies and see how it feels and whether it makes your game just feel more awesome.
Pause the video and have a go.
Welcome back.
Let's see if we can make the game feel more awesome.
That's not something I want to do.
I'm gonna comment this code then I'm going to implement over in the stats C.S. in the enum I wants to
implement instead of having experience to level up.
I also wants to have a damage in the inner so that's going to add something else it makes our code work
over here but also if we go and find our game folder and our core and then our progression asset then
what we should be able to do is duplicate one of these elements.
So I think health has got enough levels in it that I'm going to use that as a template and duplicate
that so I get another health element and I'm going to switch that down to damage.
Now this would be way too much for doing damage.
They were going to start off pretty puny at doing about 5 damage then we can work up to I don't know
7.
Then we're gonna go up to 10 and then we can start accelerating 10 maybe 15 damage and then 20 damage
right at the end.
So you absolutely trounced these folks so their health is 20 so at the end you get two hits to kill.
Maybe this is a little bit slow.
So actually off screen I've gone and changed these numbers so that initially we have five hits to kill
then four hits the kill three two.
And finally one hit to kill an enemy a grunt at level 1.
So that's how I've decided to set my damage you might choose to pace your game slightly differently
and Rick's gonna go over how we can pace our games much better in a dedicated video.
So let's have a look at how this plays now.
So I'm going to pick up why I've got a weapon actually so I'm gonna go and actually use the sword.
Looks like we have an error here because the given key was not present in the dictionary.
That's because I forgot to add damage for ACT guards as well.
So that's why it is giving me that problem.
So let's go ahead and add damage for God's so they would go.
I have added damage both for the archer and for the grunt if I go ahead and hit play now.
Hopefully it won't keep pausing and if I pick up a sword go and attack this guy there we go.
Then you can see how much damage I'm doing.
I'm just doing a damage and it's going to take me five hits to kill him.
Indeed it has.
And then I level up and we want to see how long it's going to take me I'll kill someone who is not an
archer class.
This Archer is not actually an art classes of grunt class.
2 3 4 hits to kill and he's dead.
Now let's get this guy see whether he's going to take a few hits one to three hits to kill.
Yeah one two hits to kill Yeah.
Bam.
Ah.
Yeah.
I'm knocking them out now because I'm level 5 and they're a puny level 1.
That's the kind of feeling we want in an RPG is just that feeling of power increasing in power and leveling
up so as I said the problem with this system is that it's entirely based on our level doesn't matter
what weapon we pick up.
So in the next lecture we're going to look at how we can make an extensible modifier system that's not
going to only work for weapons.
It's going to work for any item that you might equip or pick up.
It can give you bonuses to any stat and say your health maybe your damage you could add stats for agility
whatever you like.
He's gonna be able to give you flexible bonuses both percentage wise and additive.
Next March we're going to do the additive ones though.
So see that.